Add docs for dagster-openai integration (#20013)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/openai.mdx

---

## Prerequisites

To get started, install the `dagster` and `dagster-openai` Python packages:

```bash
pip install dagster dagster-openai
```

Note that you will need an OpenAI [API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) to use the resource, which can be generated in your OpenAI account.

---

## Connecting to OpenAI

The first step in using OpenAI with Dagster is to tell Dagster how to connect to an OpenAI client using an OpenAI [resource](/concepts/resources). This resource contains the credentials needed to interact with OpenAI API.

We will supply our credentials as environment variables by adding them to a `.env` file. For more information on setting environment variables in a production setting, see [Using environment variables and secrets](/guides/dagster/using-environment-variables-and-secrets).

```bash
# .env

OPENAI_API_KEY=...
```

Then, we can instruct Dagster to authorize the OpenAI resource using the environment variables:

> ```python startafter=start_example endbefore=end_example file=/integrations/openai/resource.py dedent=4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python startafter=start_example endbefore=end_example file=/integrations/openai/resource.py
```

`dedent` is used for code that are inside a function so the code block can dedent. in this case, we dont need this. otherwise, it'd look off like it's currently showing:
<img width="778" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/assets/4531914/7d6f649e-9aff-49d9-8c2e-6f8b5c259e37">

dagster_openai import OpenAIResource

 dagster import EnvVar

ll API key from environment variables
ai = OpenAIResource(
api_key=EnvVar("OPENAI_API_KEY"),
```

---

## Using the OpenAI resource with assets

The OpenAI resource can be used in assets in order to interact with the OpenAI API. Note that in this example, we supply our credentials as environment variables directly when instantiating the <PyObject object="Definitions" /> object.

```python startafter=start_example endbefore=end_example file=/integrations/openai/assets.py dedent=4
dagster_openai import OpenAIResource

 dagster import (
AssetExecutionContext,
Definitions,
EnvVar,
asset,
define_asset_job,

et(compute_kind="OpenAI")
openai_asset(context: AssetExecutionContext, openai: OpenAIResource):
with openai.get_client(context) as client:
    client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Say this is a test."}],
    )

ai_asset_job = define_asset_job(name="openai_asset_job", selection="openai_asset")

 = Definitions(
assets=[openai_asset],
jobs=[openai_asset_job],
resources={
    "openai": OpenAIResource(api_key=EnvVar("OPENAI_API_KEY")),
},
```

> After materializing your asset, your OpenAI API usage metadata will be available in the **Events** and **Plots** tabs of your asset in the Dagster UI. Refer to the [Viewing and materializing assets in the UI guide](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#viewing-and-materializing-assets-in-the-ui) for more information.

Reviewer: should we navigate to Insights here? something like - if Dagster Cloud, the plots could show up in Insights, blah blah.

Reviewer 2: ➕

---

## Using the OpenAI resource with ops

> The OpenAI resource can also be used in ops. **Note**: Currently, the OpenAI resource cannot log OpenAI usage metadata when used in ops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenAI resource can also be used in ops. **Note**: Currently, the OpenAI resource doesn't (out-of-the-box) log OpenAI usage metadata when used in ops.
```
nit suggestion ^ - take or leave it.

then, consider adding a `with_usage_metadata` example down below (can be in a followup PR) to explain how to log usage metadata in ops.

---
title: "OpenAI + Dagster"
description: The `dagster-openai` library provides the ability to build OpenAI pipelines with Dagster and log OpenAI API usage metadata in Dagster Insights.
---

> # OpenAI + Dagster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# OpenAI + Dagster (Experimental)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```
<Note>
  This feature is considered <strong>experimental</strong>.
</Note>
```

---
title: "Dagster OpenAI"

> description: The dagster-openai library provides the ability to build OpenAI pipelines with Dagster, through helpful resources.

Reviewer: we should highlight the usage metadata / insights here

---

# Dagster OpenAI

> This library provides the ability to build OpenAI pipelines with Dagster, through helpful resources.

Reviewer: same as above

> This library includes a resource, <PyObject module="dagster_openai" object="OpenAIResource" />, using the <a href="https://github.com/openai/openai-python">OpenAI Python API Library</a>, which provides a simple way to interact with OpenAI API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library includes a resource, <PyObject module="dagster_openai" object="OpenAIResource" />, using the [OpenAI Python API Library](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), which provides a simple way to interact with OpenAI API.
```
markdown should work here

> When used with Dagster's [Software-defined Asset](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), the resource automatically logs OpenAI usage metadata in the asset metadata. More details can be found in [relevant APIs](#dagster-openai-relevant-apis).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used with Dagster's [Software-defined Asset](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), the resource automatically logs OpenAI usage metadata in the asset metadata. More details can be found in [relevant APIs](#relevant-apis).
```
should make the linking work
[1]

---

> ## <a name="dagster-openai-relevant-apis"></a>Relevant APIs

Reviewer: [1] then no special anchor here

| Name                                                                        | Description                                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject module="dagster_openai" object="with_usage_metadata" />           | The function wrapper used on OpenAI API Endpoint methods to log OpenAI usage metadata |

> | <PyObject module="dagster_openai" object="OpenAIResource" />                | The OpenAI Resource used for handing the client                                       |

Reviewer: maybe we should order OpenAIResource before with_usage_metadata

---

## Getting started

To get started with `dagster-openai` and OpenAI, familiarize yourself with the <a href="https://github.com/openai/openai-python">OpenAI Python API Library</a> by reading their docs which describe how to interact with the OpenAI API using Python.

> More information is also available the <a href="https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction">OpenAI API documentation website</a>.

Reviewer: same as above, markdown links should work

---

## Prerequisites

To get started, you will need to install the `dagster` and `dagster-openai` Python packages:

```bash
pip install dagster dagster-openai
```

Note that you will need an OpenAI [API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) to use the resource, which can be generated in your OpenAI account.

---

## Connecting to OpenAI

The first step in using OpenAI with Dagster is to tell Dagster how to connect to an OpenAI Client using an OpenAI [resource](/concepts/resources). This resource contains the credentials needed to interact with OpenAI API.

We will supply our credentials as environment variables. For more information on setting environment variables in a production setting, see [Using environment variables and secrets](/guides/dagster/using-environment-variables-and-secrets).

```bash

> export OPENAI_API_KEY=...

Reviewer: lets follow the best practice described in the "Using environment variables and secrets" guide -i.e. make a `.env` file for local use case, instead of bare export

```python dedent=4
from dagster_openai import OpenAIResource
from dagster import EnvVar

# Pull API key from environment variables
openai = OpenAIResource(
    api_key=EnvVar("OPENAI_API_KEY"),
)
```

---

## Using OpenAI resource with assets

The OpenAI resource can be used in assets in order to interact with the OpenAI API. Note that in this example, we supply our credentials as environment variables directly when instantiating the `Definitions` objects.

```python dedent=4
from dagster import (
    AssetExecutionContext,
    Definitions,
    EnvVar,
    asset,
    define_asset_job,
)
from dagster_openai import OpenAIResource

@asset(compute_kind="OpenAI")
def openai_asset(context: AssetExecutionContext, openai: OpenAIResource):
    with openai.get_client(context) as client:
        client.chat.completions.create(
            model="gpt-3.5-turbo", messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Say this is a test."}]
        )

openai_asset_job = define_asset_job(name="openai_asset_job", selection="openai_asset")

defs = Definitions(
    assets=[openai_asset],
    jobs=[openai_asset_job],
    resources={
        "openai": OpenAIResource(api_key=EnvVar("OPENAI_API_KEY")),
    },
)
```

> After materializing your asset, your OpenAI usage metadata will be available in the Events and Plots tab of your asset.

Reviewer 2: There's nothing in here about starting the UI, so how would folks know what this means?

TODO: add images.

---

> ## Using OpenAI resource with ops

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using the OpenAI resource with ops
```

> The OpenAI resource can also be used in ops in order to interact with the OpenAI API.
> 
> Note that, currently, the OpenAI resource can be used in ops to interact with OpenAI API, but cannot log OpenAI Usage metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenAI resource can also be used in ops. **Note**: Currently, the OpenAI resource cannot log OpenAI usage metadata when used in ops.
```

I think we can tighten this up a bit. We say 'interact with the OpenAI API' a lot, so I think the user probably gets that at this point.

```python dedent=4
from dagster import (
    Definitions,
    EnvVar,
    GraphDefinition,
    OpExecutionContext,
    op,
)
from dagster_openai import OpenAIResource

@op
def openai_op(context: OpExecutionContext, openai: OpenAIResource):
    with openai.get_client(context) as client:
        client.chat.completions.create(
            model="gpt-3.5-turbo", messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Say this is a test"}]
        )

openai_op_job = GraphDefinition(name="openai_op_job", node_defs=[openai_op]).to_job()

defs = Definitions(
    jobs=[openai_op_job],
    resources={
        "openai": OpenAIResource(api_key=EnvVar("OPENAI_API_KEY")),
    },
)
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No need for the rule here!

---
title: "OpenAI + Dagster"
description: The `dagster-openai` library provides the ability to build OpenAI pipelines with Dagster and log OpenAI API usage metadata in Dagster Insights.
---

# OpenAI + Dagster

The `dagster-openai` library allows you to build OpenAI pipelines with Dagster and log OpenAI API usage metadata in [Dagster Insights](/dagster-cloud/insights).

Using this library's <PyObject module="dagster_openai" object="OpenAIResource" />, you can easily interact with the [OpenAI REST API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction) via the [OpenAI Python API](https://github.com/openai/openai-python).

When used with Dagster's [Software-defined Assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), the resource automatically logs OpenAI usage metadata in asset metadata. See the [Relevant APIs](#relevant-apis) section for more information.

---

## Getting started

> Before you get started with the `dagster-openai`library, we recommend familiarizing yourself with the [OpenAI Python API library](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), which this integration uses to interact with the [OpenAI REST API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you get started with the `dagster-openai` library, we recommend familiarizing yourself with the [OpenAI Python API library](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), which this integration uses to interact with the [OpenAI REST API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction).
```

Looks like a space was missing
